# Minishell
This project is a self-made minishell created in C.
The main goal of this project is to understand the process creation and synchronization using the C programming language

Brandon Ngo and Jack Kraemer worked on this project.

## Parts of the Shell Program

### The Parser

The parser is the software component that reads command lines such as:

```
ls -al
```

### The Executor

The executor will take the command table generated by the parser and for every command in the array it will create a new process

## How It Works

To begin, the shell will constantly be in a loop waiting for a command. It will look like the following:

```
--> $
```
It will read in user-input commands and store them into a variable for later use. If there is no input or one that is not recognized, it will inform the user that the input is not recognized and continue running.

The program handles commands in three ways:

1. Read the command from input
2. Parse the string into a program and arguments
3. Run the parsed command

The shell uses a helper function makeargv() to read the input and allocate space for it. This function takes into account for whitespace and endlines that will be in the input. 

makeargc() will also parse the string that is being taken in, uses strcpy() and strtok() to tokenize the string, and allocates memory for the array of pointers to the tokens.

Once the input string is tokenized, then the script will use the helper function forkEx() to take the list of arguments and forks the process. This creates a child process to run the command given by the user. By using the system function execvp(), it takes in a program name and have the Operating System search for the program in the path.

This is a simple shell so there are not a ton of features, it is missing a few builtins like cd and cat. This was an interesting project and taught us how processing works.

## Installation & Usage

### Requirements

1. Must run on Linux
2. Must have slight knowledge of Linux command line commands

### Compilation

Here is an example of compiling and running the program:

```
$ cd [pathway_of_minishell]
$ gcc -o minishell minishell.c
$ ./minishell
```

## Project Instructions

### WARNING

Do not use CTRL + D while in the shell, It will cause an infinite loop

Some commands do not work 

### Commands That Work

To see the contents of the directory you are in:

```
--> $ ls
```

To see the network setup:

```
--> $ ip link
```

To make a directory:

```
--> $ mkdir [directory name]
```

To create a clone with a new network namespace:

```
--> $ clone net
```

To create a clone with a new namespace:

```
--> $ clone ns
```

To create a clone filesystem:

```
--> $ clone files
```

To leave a created clone:

```
--> $ exit
```

- [ ] write some articles
- [x] drink a cup of tea
